>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
Now, regardless of the
side of the fence you're
on with climate change,
there's no kidding yourself,
the world is changing.
Let's take a look
at our next guest.
>>FEMALE VOICE: The
idea that people
cause global warming
is just politically
motivated propaganda.
That's the opinion of
Tim Ball, a geographer
and historical climatologist.
After earning his PhD from
Queen Mary University of London
in 1983, Tim moved
to Canada, where
he taught at the University
of Winnipeg for over 25 years.
Tim rejects the
scientific consensus,
arguing that carbon
dioxide isn't dangerous.
It's essential.
For the past decade,
Tim has waged
a war of ideas against the
environmental movement.
The author and co-author
of many papers,
he's also written a
book, "The Deliberate
Corruption of Climate
Science," now in paperback.
He'll explain that what you've
been told about the environment
is more swindle than science.
>>NOORY: Well, Tim, you've
been explaining for years now
and sounding the alarm
that folks, what you think
and what you hear
about climate change
isn't necessarily the fact.
>>TIM BALL: More than isn't
necessary-- it isn't the facts.
It's spin.
It's for the media.
It's to get attention.
It's to persuade politicians
to pursue certain agendas,
political agendas.
And it's basically
to control people,
because that's what politics
is essentially all about.
>>NOORY: As I said
at the outset too,
there's no question that
the climate is changing.
Things are strange.
This winter in most areas
has been very mild--
70 degree temperatures
in St. Louis,
where I go back and forth.
Denver, 70 degrees in February.
It's bizarre.
But these are
cycles, aren't they?
>>BALL: Well, it's not only
cycles, but it's not bizarre.
I mean, if you think
about it, like Fox News
has extreme weather.
Well, what's extreme weather?
A hurricane is not
extreme weather.
It's normal.
But of course, what they're
really talking about
is the damage it does
to people's lives.
And one of the things that
happened when they were saying,
oh, global warming's a
problem and hurricanes
are increasing, what was
really increasing what's
the cost of dealing with the
impact of hurricanes, not
the actual hurricanes
themselves.
And one of the things
that creates this illusion
that things are getting worse
or they've never been this bad
is that it's like
when-- everybody's
had this experience.
You're introduced
to somebody, and it
seems like every
time you turn around,
there they are or
there their name is.
They were always
there, they were
just not part of your world or
your detection, if you want.
Now the media's caught on to
the global warming, the climate
change.
So every time there's a weather
event anywhere, it's reported
and it's presented as if it's
abnormal, when in fact it's
perfectly normal.
So because the public don't
know how much climate changes
all the time, and
extremely, then they're
very easily fooled into
believing that a normal event
is abnormal.
>>NOORY: Sure.
And that we're causing it.
>>BALL: Yeah, exactly.
And so it's the image that
they create in people's minds,
and they use those terms.
For example, the Greenpeace
report on global warming
back in 1999, they
said, carbon dioxide
is added to the atmosphere
naturally and unnaturally.
Well, what do they mean by that?
What's the unnatural?
And the answer is,
unnaturally is human.
Say, well, if that's true, then
if what humans do is unnatural,
does that mean
humans are unnatural?
And this is the game
that they're playing.
They know the public
don't understand
the history of climate,
how much it changes.
They also know that most of
them are terrified of science.
You can divide the population
up into 80% percent
that aren't students and 20%
that are science students.
And then amongst
that 20% of science,
the number that actually know
about climate and climate
science is very small.
And then it's very easy
to marginalize them.
So when somebody comes
along like me and says,
no, what's happening
is perfectly normal.
It's well within natural
variability of climate-- oh,
paid by the oil companies--
very easy to marginalize.
And you, in your programs,
know about how they do that.
For example, they'll create
a term to lump people in.
So for example, anybody who
asks anything about Obama's
paperwork was a
birther which meant,
you're one of those birthers.
You're marginalized
outside of society.
You're not mainstream thinking.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>BALL: And so they did
that with the climate issue.
It started out as
global warming skeptic,
until we started to point out
that, if you're not a skeptic,
you're not a scientist.
All scientists are skeptics.
Well then, as you know, warming
stopped happening around 1998,
really started.
And so then they
ran into a problem,
because people
were saying, you're
talking about global
warming and we're
having record cold winters.
The facts don't fit.
>>NOORY: It doesn't make sense.
>>BALL: Doesn't make sense.
So then they switched to climate
change, which allowed them then
to incorporate--
>>NOORY: It was broader.
>>BALL: But they also
changed the isolation
of those that questioned,
because now if you challenged
climate change,
you were a denier,
with of the Holocaust
connotations to that.
They upped the ante to isolate
anybody that dared question.
>>NOORY: To set the
stage, let's take
a little look at Al Gore in one
of his famous little speeches.
Just watch this, folks.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>AL GORE: But there
is one relationship
that is far more powerful than
all the others, and it is this.
When there is more
carbon dioxide,
the temperature gets warmer
because it traps more heat
from the sun inside.
Carbon dioxide,
having never gone
above 300 parts per million,
here is where CO2 is now.
Way above where it's ever been,
as far back as this record
will measure.
Now if you'll bear
with me, I want
to really emphasize this point.
The crew here has
tried to teach me how
to use this contraption here.
So if I don't kill myself,
I'll-- it's all ready right
here.
Look at how far above the
natural cycle this is.
And we've done that.
But ladies and gentlemen,
in the next 50 years,
really in less
than 50 years, it's
going to continue to go up.
When some of these children
who are here are my age,
here's what it's going to
be in less than 50 years.
You've heard of off the charts--
within less than 50 years
it'll be here.
There's not a single
fact or date or number
that's been used to make this
up that's in any controversy.
The so-called skeptics look
at this and they say, so?
That seems perfectly OK.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: So when did Al
Gore become a climatologist?
>>BALL: Well, that's
an interesting thing,
because the minute I go on any
program, they immediately say,
what are your qualifications?
Nobody ever asks Al Gore
that, but that's the way
of the world these days.
Gore hired Hollywood to help
him make that documentary,
and that was the perfect
people to make it,
because it's from the
land of make-believe.
The science of that-- and it's
a marvelous piece of propaganda.
It's a brilliant
piece of propaganda.
Leni Riefenstahl would
appreciate the talents in that.
>>NOORY: What was the
motivation behind that?
>>BALL: The motivation
was to isolate CO2
as the cause of global warming.
And what he's doing there-- it's
false information, by the way.
He says, the highest level ever.
In fact, it's at
the lowest level
in a very, very long time.
And by that, I mean
in 300 million years.
The average level of CO2 for
the last 300 million years
has been around 1,200
parts per million.
And one of the pieces
of science that
supports that is that in
commercial greenhouses
now today, they pump in up to
1,200 parts per million of CO2.
The plants grow
four times more--
>>NOORY: Faster.
>>BALL: Yeah, much faster,
and use less water.
>>NOORY: And bigger.
>>BALL: And I think
that 300 million years
is when plants evolved.
So I think they evolved to an
optimum level of CO2 of about
1,200 parts per million.
And you could argue that
they're malnourished.
In fact, NASA brought out
satellite imagery showing how,
because of the increase of CO2
that's occurring naturally,
the plant is expanded
around the world.
It's a positive thing.
But they wanted to demonize CO2.
And the reason that they
did that was-- actually it
goes back to, not about climate
change or global warming
at all.
It starts with the argument
that the world is overpopulated.
Now, the argument is that
the world's overpopulated,
and as it industrializes, it
uses more and more resources
and that will ultimately
run out of resources.
That was encapsulated
in that book
by the Club of Rome,
"The Limits to Growth,"
where they very simplistically
said, here's the resource
and here's the rate at
which we're using it.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
And none of that's
turned out to be
true at all-- absolutely false.
But that was the
Malthusian idea.
Because Malthus said
that the population would
outgrow the food supply.
That's equally turned
out to be wrong.
And by the way, Malthus had
a great influence on science,
because Darwin took Malthus'
essays on population with him
to the Galapagos and said
they were the guiding
influence on his ideas about
the theory of evolution,
which is an interesting thing.
>>NOORY: Why, Tim, when we
talk about climate change,
regardless of the side
of the fence you're on,
why is it so argumentative?
Why is it so bitter?
Because I've seen it.
I mean, even during my
open line phone calls
on "Coast to Coast," if we
talk about climate change
or even when you're
on as a guest,
you'll get a handful
of people-- minute,
but they're so angry if you
don't believe it's man-made.
Why is that?
>>BALL: Well, because it's
not a scientific belief.
It's a political and
ideological belief.
Because what they argued
was the Club of Rome,
which promoted "The
Limits to Growth,"
and pushed the overpopulation of
Paul Ehrlich-- and by the way,
Obama's science
czar, John Holdren,
who published with
Paul Ehrlich--
>>NOORY: --who wants
population control.
>>BALL: He wants population
control, exactly.
And so you read the Club
of Rome book, the 1994 book
by Alexander King.
And they say that we need
something to unite us.
In other words, we
need a global threat
that we can then use to say,
hey, this needs one world
government to deal with it.
You can't rely on
individual nations.
>>NOORY: You gotta
do it as a whole.
>>BALL: Yeah.
And then we need something--
so they listed some things.
They listed pollution.
They listed water resources.
And by the way, that's
going to be the next issue.
And then they say,
global warming.
And so Maurice Strong, who
just passed away in China,
and came from a socialist
family, his sister,
or his aunt, I should say,
Anna Strong, was a Marxist,
moved to communist
China in the 1930s,
and became an adviser
to Mao Tse-tung.
So they come from a very
socialist background.
And Strong, in an interview
in a wonderful book
by Elaine Dewar, who
was one of, like you,
one of the original true
investigative journalists--
I'm going to start with an idea,
but if I find that I'm wrong,
>>NOORY: I'm going to flex it.
>>BALL: She wanted to
write a book praising
Canadian environmentalists, like
David Suzuki, Elizabeth May,
and so on, and Maury Strong.
Halfway through
her research, she
found out these people were more
corrupt than the people they
were attacking.
So she wrote the book, "Cloak
of Green" And about 20%
percent of the book is
devoted to Maury Strong.
And she said to Strong,
well, what's the problem?
He said, the problem
with the world
is the industrialized
nations, that they're
destroying the planet, and
isn't it our responsibility
to get rid of them.
Now, he wasn't just
talking about it
from a pollution point of view.
He was talking about it
from the point of view
that they are using up resources
at a much greater risk.
>>NOORY: So let's wipe them out.
>>BALL: Let's wipe them out.
Let's think about that.
How would you do that?
I mean, that that's the
genius, or if you want,
the evil genius of these people,
is not only having the idea.
Because we all
have lots of ideas.
But putting them into practice
is another whole game.
And so they looked at
the whole issue and said,
well, if we consider a
nation like a car running
on fossil fuels, you got
the fossil fuel going in,
you can stop the engine by
squeezing off the fossil fuel
line.
But if you did that
in a nation, people
would scream immediately.
And you see that with whenever
the gasoline prices went up,
people were outraged.
But you can also stop the
engine by plugging the exhaust.
So they said, OK, what's the
byproduct of the fossil fuel
industry?
And the answer is, mostly CO2.
So they said, let's show that
CO2 is causing global warming.
>>NOORY: Just make it happen.
>>BALL: Make it happen.
And what Maurice Strong
did-- and by the way,
Elaine Dewar said to him,
well, you got this idea.
Why don't you run for politics?
He made a very telling
comment when he said,
you can't do anything
as a politician.
And that, by the way,
parallels Conrad Black,
a name that Americans
are familiar with.
And they said to him one time,
why aren't you in politics?
And he said, I don't
need to be, which
is a very telling comment about
the state of politics today.
And you see that, of course,
in terms of influence
of donors and everything else.
But Elaine Dewar
said to him, well,
how are you going to
implement this idea?
And he said, I'm going to
go to the United Nations
where I can get all
the money I want
and not be accountable
to anybody.
He then went to
the United Nations
to set up the United Nations
Environment Program, which
was the Rio conference, which
George Herbert Bush said,
I'm not going to it.
It's political nonsense,
and refused to go.
>>NOORY: It's a football.
>>BALL: Yeah.
And there, at that
conference, he
set up Agenda 21, which I
know you've done programs on.
That was the
political side of it.
And in the political side
of it with the climate,
they set up what was called
the Conference of the Parties.
Now that's a term that people
will have heard recently,
because the Paris Climate
Conference was the Conference
of the Parties number 21.
And so they determine how much
money is going to be spent
and what politics is going to
occur with regard to climate.
But they can only operate
on the basis of the science
that they're being given by
the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change,
the IPCC, which
was set up through the United
Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change.
Now, here's the
interesting thing.
I'm going to step aside
from that for a minute.
I've served on many commissions
of inquiry-- federal,
provincial, or state
level and so on.
And I used to think commissions
of inquiry were great.
And I think a lot of people do.
You finally get the politics
out of the nonsense.
Just get somebody--
>>NOORY: But they're
run by the politicians.
>>BALL: But people
don't realize that,
and don't realize how they run.
And I found out the first
commission of inquiry
I was appointed to, because
it was dispute over a lake.
And by the way,
fights over water
are going to be
much, much more--
>>NOORY: It's going
to be huge, huge.
Wars will be fought.
>>BALL: And have been.
And have been.
And anyway, finally
the politicians said,
we're going to have
a commission inquiry.
Everybody cheered.
The politician's
now off the hook.
Because the media say,
well, what about this issue?
>>NOORY: It's the
committee's job.
>>BALL: Got to wait
till they reply.
Then we got the terms of
reference for the commission.
They were so limited to
pre-determine the outcome.
And I did something that
I'm actually quite proud of.
I told the chairman of the
commission, Mr. Duncan,
I said, you go
tell the minister.
Either we get carte blanche to
all of the information, nothing
hidden, or I'm going to
go to the media and say,
the minister's trying
to predetermine
the outcome of this commission.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>BALL: Now, you
know, on your program
you deal with
conspiracy theories.
And the internet, of course,
has fostered so many of those.
One of the biggest in the
world is, who killed Kennedy?
And I know you've
talked about revisiting
that in your program.
Well, I was watching
Justice Warren one
time-- I believe it was
ABC-- before he passed away.
And the interviewer said,
well, why didn't you
look at the Dallas Mafia
connection with Jack Ruby.
And Warren said, it wasn't
in my terms of reference.
I knew what he was saying.
He was saying I was
told not to go there.
But most of the
audience, that would
have just slipped right by them.
>>NOORY: That was the
key to the entire puzzle.
>>BALL: Exactly, exactly.
And by the way, Trump is pushing
another one now with the 9/11
inquiry, where he's saying,
what's in those 28 pages
they're not telling you?
That's where the
conspiracy theories start.
They start in the cover-up.
So when Maurice Strong set up
the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change, they wrote
the definition and terms
of reference that
predetermined the outcome.
And how did they do that?
They defined and directed
them to only look
at human causes
of climate change.
In other words, don't look
at any of the natural causes.
Just look at the human causes.
Well, you can't
possibly determine
any possible human causes
if you don't know what
the natural consequences are.
So it really narrowed it down.
And just to give you an example,
CO2 as a greenhouse gas-- and I
debate whether it is
even one-- it's only 4%
of the total greenhouse gases.
Water vapor is 95%.
What does the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change do?
They said, well, water vapor,
humans produce a little,
but it's so insignificant
compared to the total.
We're going to
assume it's constant.
How can you do that?
Because the variance
in water vapor
each year more than
swamps any possible effect
that CO2 changes
might be having.
But because their
terms of reference
set that, and then, of course,
noticing in Gore's movie
that you showed, he
said, CO2 increases,
temperature increases.
Every single record--
and remember,
I'm a historical climatologist.
I've looked at all this.
>>NOORY: This has
been your business.
>>BALL: This is my
business-- including
the record that Gore showed.
And you notice how he
separated the temperature
from the CO2 level.
Well, within five years
of that chart coming out,
that's the Antarctic ice core
record, where they supposedly
sampled CO2 in temperature.
And Jouzel, the French
scientist that brought that out
in 1991, Petit and Jouzel--
Jouzel warned about it.
He said, don't rush
to judgment on this.
He said, that's a graph that's
4 and 1/2 inches long covering
400,000 years.
And not only that, but it's
been smoothed by 70 years,
so you've taken all of the
variability out of it, which is
what explains the mechanisms.
But within five years, it was
disclosed that in that graph,
the temperature changes before
the CO2, not as they assume,
that CO2 causes
temperature increase.
So Gore's argument there
is completely wrong.
The only place-- and I've
joked about this-- not joked.
There's nothing funny
about this thing.
I've said the only
place in the world
where a CO2 increase causes
a temperature increase is
in the computer models
of the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change.
>>NOORY: Tim, we went
out to the streets
to talk to people
about climate denier.
Let's take a look.
>>MAN 1: To global
warming deniers,
I would ask them to be a
little more open-minded,
perhaps read up on
it a little more.
It's good to be critical.
It's good to be skeptical.
But at the same time, there
are some very intelligent
scientists who have done
some serious study into this.
And the evidence is
pretty darn clear.
>>MAN 2: Ask them if
they've read the science.
That's the important part.
And if they don't, if they
haven't read the science,
then you can't argue with them.
>>WOMAN 1: Develop a
relationship with the Earth
and then they'll see
that it's changing
and that it's being
destroyed by our very hands.
>>WOMAN 2: To look around
and realize, hello,
it's like 60, 70
degrees in February.
I think the proof
is in the pudding.
>>NOORY: So those are some
of the comments of people
in the Boulder area that you
of course would not agree with.
>>BALL: No.
And I sympathize with
them, because they
are fed the constant message.
And of course that's
one of the things
that you do when you're
pushing a political message
is you use propaganda.
I noticed that in one
of the earlier comments,
the comment was, the consensus.
And that was an argument that
was used from the very start.
>>NOORY: But that's not true.
>>BALL: No, because consensus
has nothing to do with science.
Einstein said, I could have
100 facts that prove me right.
Only get one wrong,
and I'm done.
But of course, that
was also corrupted.
Naomi Oreskes,
the woman came out
and said that she done a
study, a Google search,
and found-- I think Gore
mentions it in his movie, 900
and some articles, all of them
supporting the official story
on global warming.
But anybody that's ever
done a Google search
knows that the answers you get
are determined by the key words
that you use.
And in fact, I've
learned how to play that.
Because when I want
an article published,
I make sure there's
certain key words
are in the title of the article.
>>NOORY: That gets you up there.
>>BALL: Oh, it bumps you up.
It's the same way,
as people know,
you get the right
sequence of letters
and so on in the
telephone book, you
can get at the front
of the telephone.
People know how to
play those games.
And so the idea of a
consensus-- then of course
it was further corrupted
by Cook and the University
of Queensland in Australia,
where they came out and said,
97% of scientists agree.
>>NOORY: What's the real number?
Is it 50-50?
>>BALL: No.
Lord Monckton, in
that particular study,
Monckton actually
analyzed their own data.
And what they'd done
was they determined
what they thought was agreeing.
When you actually looked,
by their own definition,
it was only 3% that agreed.
>>NOORY: 3%.
>>BALL: But here's
the problem, George.
I've got a quote on
the cover of my book
from a German
meteorologist and physicist
by the name of
Klaus-Eckart Puls.
And he said, I was out there
pushing the IPCC line--
yeah, global warming,
humans are causing it, CO2.
He said, I finally-- somebody
challenged me about something,
so I went and read what
the IPCC had written.
I discovered it was
absolute nonsense.
It was scientific rubbish.
And he said, I just assumed
that other scientists
wouldn't cheat.
And so very few
scientists have even
looked at the
science of climate.
>>NOORY: And here's
the big question--
why are they pushing this?
What's the bottom line here?
I've always told myself, look
at who benefits, who profits.
Why is this being pushed?
>>BALL: There's two
parts about that.
And you and I know--
Rush Limbaugh always
pushes the thing about
follow the money.
What's interesting
about that is the money
only influences people
up to a certain level.
Money is not going to
influence a billionaire.
It's power.
>>NOORY: It's the power.
>>BALL: At a certain
level, it's power.
And that's what Maurice
Strong was about.
That's what George
Soros is about,
that all of these people,
it's about the power.
Now, of course, the money
comes with the power.
But it's not the
main motivation.
>>NOORY: It's not
the aphrodisiac.
>>BALL: It's not the
aphrodisiac, exactly.
But let's go back to
why they isolated CO2.
They wanted something--
they wanted global warming
and they wanted an issue
that would unite people.
>>NOORY: And it killed
the coal industry.
>>BALL: Of course.
>>NOORY: They've wiped them out.
>>BALL: Exactly.
And Obama told you he
was going to do that.
In his election
campaign, he said, yeah,
you could open a coal mine.
But I'll put you
out of business.
I'll tax you out of business.
What he ignores is the
fact that Mr. Murray, who
had been in the coal
business for years, he
with two other
businesspeople built
a plant in North
Dakota that actually
burns coal absolutely clean.
They don't want to know.
>>NOORY: And you don't
hear anything about that.
>>BALL: You don't hear
anything about it.
But the objective was,
it's all about the power.
And so they needed
something, first of all,
that transcended nationalism.
Because, see, the nation-state,
which really only emerged
after the Treaty of Versailles,
the First World War and Woodrow
Wilson, every nation
has a right to a state.
You see the debate about
Palestine and Israel
and the rest of it.
And all of those
things are still
working their way through
our system with boundaries
and so on.
>>NOORY: Slowly.
>>BALL: But in order
to overcome that,
you needed an issue that
transcended boundaries.
So of course, pollution
and global warming--
it's like I always
used to point out
to Canadians that the most
polluted city in Canada
is Windsor, Ontario.
>>NOORY: Spent many days
there coming from Detroit.
>>BALL: It's coming across
the river from Detroit.
So I told Windsor, I said you
should just put big fans up
and blow it back.
So why did they do that?
Well, because they believe
that the only way to run people
and to run the world properly
is to have a single government.
>>NOORY: That's what they want.
>>BALL: That's what they
want, one world government.
And Maurice Strong admits that.
>>NOORY: And God
knows they're trying.
>>BALL: And Maurice
strong actually
had a quote that Elaine
Dewar says when he says,
I'm a socialist
ideologically but I'm
a capitalist practically.
So he's got this blend of being
a socialist and a capitalist.
And you see that with George
Soros, the same thing.
You also see it, of
course, politically,
where you see countries
like Russia and China,
which are basically what
I call state capitalism,
that they're attempting
to blend the two.
Of course, they really
are so different
fundamentally that
they really can't
be-- it's a marriage
that's doomed to fail.
>>NOORY: With the climate change
believers that it's man-made,
I would guess most of them
are confusing pollution
and our need to protect
the planet that way
from climate change.
>>BALL: And that was
deliberately created.
I mean, Al Gore was
one of the first
to start saying that pollution--
and you hear Obama saying,
carbon pollution.
Well, first of all,
it isn't carbon.
Carbon is a solid.
It's soot.
And yes, it can be a pollutant.
It's certainly black
coming from coal.
But CO2 is a gas.
They're completely
different things.
Yet the public don't even know
the difference between them.
And clearly, Obama
doesn't know or want
to know the difference
between the two.
>>NOORY: We had more CO2
during the dinosaur eras.
That's why the
dinosaurs were so big.
plants were so big.
>>BALL: Of course.
And we've also had
some of the lowest
levels of CO2-- sorry,
the highest levels of CO2
during ice ages, 320
million years ago.
So when you look at the
history of the relationship
to CO2 and temperature,
doesn't match.
>>NOORY: And by the way,
CO2 is great for plants.
>>BALL: Oh, of course!
>>NOORY: That's
what they live on.
>>BALL: Patrick Moore, who's
the co-founder of Greenpeace,
and of course realized--
and I know Patrick.
I've known him for 35 years.
And he said to me,
many years ago he said,
I quit because
within five years,
the Marxists took
over the organization.
And that's the
phrase he used to me.
>>NOORY: We have another
clip from Boulder.
It's kind of like a
true or false game.
I want you to look at that, Tim.
Then we'll react to it.
Let's take a look.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>MAN 3: Do humans
contribute to global warming?
>>MAN 1: Yes, true.
>>WOMAN: I think
to an extent, true.
>>MAN 1: It doesn't matter.
>>MAN 3: True or false-- we
have accurate and historical
measurements of our climate.
>>MAN 1: True.
>>WOMAN: False.
We have accurate,
historical measures
of the climate for
the last 50 years.
>>MAN 3: Do you
think the equipment
we have to measure
weather works properly?
>>MAN 2: True.
>>WOMAN: False.
>>MAN 1: True, the equipment
that we have to measure
weather--
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: We've got pretty
good equipment, don't we?
>>BALL: No.
And not only that--
>>NOORY: So you would
have said false.
>>BALL: I would have said
false to all of that right.
Just think about this.
They're telling you-- and by
the way, when they say "ever,"
I used to phone the radio
station would say that.
And I said, you
really mean ever?
The world's 4 and 1/2
billion years old, you know.
And they said, this is only
an official government record.
So my God, how did
we ever survive
without official
government records?
>>NOORY: Thank the government.
>>BALL: How long is the
official government record?
In most areas, it's
less than 50 years.
There are some records
that are 100 years or more.
But there are very,
very few of them.
And we don't have weather
stations for about 85%
of the world's
surface, even today.
There's no weather
stations on the oceans.
stations in the mountains.
There's no weather stations in
the rainforest or in the tundra
or in the Arctic.
There are no weather stations.
>>NOORY: Just on
the poles, right?
>>BALL: Yeah, I mean,
it's just ridiculous.
There is a concentration of
weather stations in Eastern
US and Western Europe.
And some of those
are 100 years old.
But let's accept that
the official record's
100 years long.
What is 100 years as a sample
size out of 4 and 1/2 billion?
>>NOORY: Nothing.
>>BALL: It's 0.000026%.
It's laughable.
And this is what is
so funny about it.
Anthony Watt, who runs
is a very good website,
if you know Watt's Up with
That, and is a weathermen
and a meteorologists and so on.
And he started to
look at, supposedly,
the best instrumental
stations in the world, which
are the American ones.
And he found that only--
correct me on this,
but it's approximately 8% that
are accurate to within one
degree Celsius.
>>NOORY: And also,
Tim, don't they
realize that the Sun has
a lot to do with what's
happening, not
only on our planet,
but for the rest of
the solar system?
>>BALL: Of course.
And you got those
stories about the weather
changing on other planets,
even when there's no CO2.
>>NOORY: And it's
getting hotter.
They don't have factories
there, I don't think.
Maybe, they might-- who knows.
>>BALL: Yeah, exactly.
And by the way,
Carl Satan was one
of the ones who got involved
in that, because Sagan
and his gang were saying
that the temperature on Venus
is such and such a level
because of the CO2 levels.
Well, there's a story we
should do one time on Immanuel
Velikovsky.
>>NOORY: Oh, yes.
Worlds in collision.
>>BALL: Worlds in collision.
What they did to him,
what the scientific--
they destroyed him.
Velikovsky was predicting the
temperature level on Venus
would be very different.
He turned out to be right.
>>NOORY: Well, he believes
that Venus was a comet.
>>BALL: It came
into the global--
but Sagan actually
produced and edited
a book called "Scientists
Confront Velikovsky."
That's where the CO2 and
planets things came in.
But go back, your question about
the sun-- go back to my comment
about the definition
given to the IPCC.
See, if you're only
looking at human causes,
humans don't affect the sun, so
we don't have to look at that.
>>NOORY: That's right.
So rule that out.
>>BALL: Rule that out.
So now, we'll only
look at CO2, methane.
And I remember even before
CO2 was a big issue,
methane was a big issue.
A fellow by the name
of Jeremy Rifkin
who's made a career out of
scaring people to death.
>>NOORY: Tim, explain
the controversy
that occurred a few years
ago with the emails coming
from man-made climate believers.
What was that all about?
>>BALL: OK, what
happened, remember
earlier I talked
to you about how
the Conference of the
Parties could only
make policy and money spending
based upon the science
that the IPCC were giving them.
The Conference of the Parties
meet every year in November.
That's why in Paris,
it was November.
And they meet at exotic
places around the world
a taxpayers' expense.
Well, the Copenhagen
conference, COP, was COP 15.
And it was a pivotal one.
It was important
to them, because it
was the one at which
they were going
to introduce the whole
Kyoto Protocol, which
was the great socialist
equalization of wealth,
taking money from those
nasty industrialized nations
that it got wealthy
producing CO2.
They had to pay the other
nations that had suffered,
the developing nations-- it
was a great transfer of wealth
is what it was.
Somebody realized
that Copenhagen
was critical to the whole
policy going forward.
So they leaked emails from
the Climatic Research Unit
at the University
of East Anglia.
Now, most of the scientists
that control the IPCC,
such as Phil Jones,
who controlled
the modern temperature record,
such as Michael Mann, who
controlled the
historic temperature
record, such as
Andrew Weaver, who
was with the computer models.
They controlled
the key chapters.
Well, somebody
leaked their emails.
And it was interesting because--
>>NOORY: Which put
them in a bad light.
>>BALL: Oh, it
exposed what they were
doing, how they were doing it.
I mean, it's absolutely--
>>NOORY: Their actual emails.
>>BALL: Actual
emails were leaked.
And of course, what
was interesting was
under normal circumstances,
they could have come out
and said, no, those
are not our emails.
But Phil Jones, the
director, was caught.
Because if the
emails were hacked,
then they could not
be used in court.
If they were stolen, they
could be used in court.
In other words, if they
were leaked, in other words,
how they were
released determined
how they could be dealt
with in the court, exactly.
And so Jones called the police
immediately and told the police
he had to admit, yeah,
those are our emails.
So in other words,
he had already
admitted that they
were their emails.
And then of course,
the analysis of that
went on to show how
they were-- they
were actually controlling
the peer review
process, which is why they
made a big deal out of it.
>>NOORY: How do they
sleep with themselves?
You would think.
Tim, that they would just
want the truth to come out.
And if the planet's
going through a cycle,
it's going through a cycle.
And if it gets hotter or
colder, that's not the point.
The point is, it's
not caused by us.
>>BALL: I'm not a
psychologist and I
can't get into all of that.
But I do know that
as humans, we're
very good at rationalizing.
And we could rationalize
our way out of anything.
>>NOORY: Are you disappointed
by the real scientists
who keep pushing this agenda?
>>BALL: Yes, particularly
because they don't go and read
what was actually done.
The minute any of them go and
read what's actually done--
>>NOORY: They
change their minds.
>>BALL: They change their minds.
And you saw Will
Happer from Princeton
and all of these people.
>>NOORY: John Coleman,
the old weatherman,
founder of the Weather Channel,
he's a staunch believer
that it's not man-made
climate change.
>>BALL: And he knew
Revelle, who was
the guy that Gore is saying,
oh, Revelle believed in this.
John Coleman knew
Revelle and said, no, he
didn't say that at all.
But at that level, the public
are lost in the argument.
>>NOORY: As we wrap things
up, Tim, how dangerous is it?
How dangerous is it for science
to keep pushing this agenda
that man-made climate
change is the cause for all
these problems?
>>BALL: I think the
credibility of science
is in serious trouble, not just
because of the climate issue.
You know-- it started by
the way in court cases,
and the first scientists
were the psychiatrists.
And they'd get
one that would say
the guy's sane and the
other one to say he's crazy.
Well, aren't they scientists?
Don't they agree?
>>NOORY: Find some
middle ground here.
>>BALL: Now, what you're seeing
is, oh, butter's bad for you.
Now butter's good
for you. [INAUDIBLE]
is good for you, now had.
>>NOORY: Margarine was
good for you, now it's not.
>>BALL: And so the whole
credibility of science
is under question.
And this climate issue is going
to be particularly egregious.
And one of the things
that I've been working on
for about 15 years now is, when
the public realized the extent
to which they've been fooled,
deliberately fooled by this,
they'll start to say, we
don't believe in anything
you tell us.
>>NOORY: Fool me once--
>>BALL: Yeah.
And that's the sad thing,
because as you said earlier,
pollution's a problem.
Environment's an issue.
We all care about
the environment.
But notice what
these people did.
They took the moral high ground.
We're the only guys that
care about the environment.
The rest you don't care.
How dare you do that!
But they wanted the dominance.
And by the way, one of the
countries that broke that cycle
was India, because the prime
minister of India, Modi,
went and I've worked with
Indian climatologists.
They know the signs very well.
And Modi looked at it and said,
OK, what you're telling us
is that there's a 2% chance
that the temperature might go up
by half a degree in
the next 50 years.
And the probability
of that is very slim.
And he said, we got
more important issues.
We've got people
starving to death.
Let's get the priority.
That took that moral high ground
away from these enviro bullies.
>>NOORY: And as
you said, the water
will become a huge
issue one day.
>>BALL: They're already
switching to that.
Peter Gleich, who is involved
in the global warming issue
out at Stanford, he's now
coined the phrase "peak water."
>>NOORY: I like that.
That one could be real.
There is no peak
oil, but water--
we got to make sure
people can treat water.
>>BALL: But it's the
greatest deception history.
There's no question about that.
>>NOORY: Thanks for
being on the program.
>>BALL: Thank you for
the opportunity, George.
>>NOORY: Folks, regardless
of your belief system
of climate change,
there's no doubt
that things are
happening on this planet.
The only advice I
could give you is
listen to people like Dr.
Tim Ball, who are telling you
the way they see it.
And then you make up
your own mind as well.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."